FROM A DISTANCE, the man struggling up the white face of the glacier might have looked like an ant crawling slowly up the side of a dinner plate. The shantytown of La Rinconada was a collection of scattered specks far below him, the wind increasing as his elevation did, blowing powdery gusts of snow into his face and freezing the damp tendrils of his black hair. Despite his amber goggles, he winced at the brightness of the reflected sunset.

Still, the man was not afraid of falling, although he was using no ropes or belay lines, only crampons and a single ice axe. His name was Alastair Hunt and he was a mage. He shaped and molded the frozen substance of the glacier under his hands as he climbed. Handholds and footholds appeared as he inched his way upward.

By the time he reached the cave, midway up the glacier, he was half frozen and fully exhausted from bending his will to tame the worst of the elements. It sapped his energy to exert his magic so continuously, but he hadn¡¦t dared slow down.

The cave itself opened like a mouth in the side of the mountain, impossible to see from above or below. He pulled himself over its edge and took a deep, jagged breath, cursing himself for not getting there sooner, for allowing himself to be tricked. In La Rinconada, the people had seen the explosion and whispered under their breaths about what it meant, the fire inside the ice.

Fire inside the ice. It had to be a distress signal ¡K or an attack. The cave was full of mages too old to fight or too young, the injured and the sick, mothers of very young children who could not be left ¡X like Alastair¡¦s own wife and son. They had been hidden away here, in one of the most remote places on the earth.

Master Rufus had insisted that otherwise they would be vulnerable, hostages to fortune, and Alastair had trusted him. Then, when the Enemy of Death hadn¡¦t shown up on the field to face the mages¡¦ champion, the Makar girl upon whom they¡¦d pinned all their hopes, Alastair had realized his mistake. He¡¦d gotten to La Rinconada as fast as he could, flying most of his way on the back of an air elemental. From there, he¡¦d made his way on foot, since the Enemy¡¦s control of elementals was unpredictable and strong. The higher he¡¦d climbed, the more frightened he¡¦d become.

Let them be all right, he thought to himself as he stepped inside the cave. Please let them be all right.

There should have been the sound of children wailing. There should have been the low buzz of nervous conversation and the hum of subdued magic. Instead, there was only the howl of the wind as it swept over the desolate peak of the mountain. The cave walls were white ice, pocked with red and brown where blood had splattered and melted in patches. Alastair pulled off his goggles and dropped them on the ground, pushing farther into the passage, drawing on the dregs of his power to steady himself.

The walls of the cave gave off an eerie phosphorescent glow. Away from the entrance, it was the only light he had to see by, which probably explained why he stumbled over the first body and nearly fell to his knees. Alastair jerked away with a yell, then winced as he heard his own shout echo back to him. The fallen mage was burned beyond recognition, but she wore the leather wristband with the large hammered piece of copper that marked her as a second-year Magisterium student. She couldn¡¦t have been older than thirteen.

You should be used to death by now, he told himself. They¡¦d been at war with the Enemy for a decade that sometimes felt like a century. At first, it had seemed impossible ¡X one young man, even one of the Makaris, planning to conquer death itself. But as the Enemy increased in power, and his army of the Chaos-ridden grew, the threat had become inescapably dire ¡K culminating in this pitiless slaughter of the most helpless, the most innocent.

Alastair got to his feet and pushed deeper into the cave, desperately looking for one face above all. He forced his way past the bodies of elderly Masters from the Magisterium and Collegium, children of friends and acquaintances, and mages who had been wounded in earlier battles. Among them lay the broken bodies of the Chaos-ridden, their swirling eyes darkened forever. Though the mages had been unprepared, they must have put up quite a fight to have slain so many of the Enemy¡¦s forces. Horror churning in his gut, his fingers and toes numb, Alastair staggered through it all ¡K until he saw her.

Sarah.

He found her lying in the very back, against a cloudy wall of ice. Her eyes were open, staring at nothing. The irises looked murky and her lashes were clotted with ice. Leaning down, he brushed his fingers over her cooling cheek. He drew in his breath sharply, his sob cutting through the air.

But where was their son? Where was Callum?

A dagger was clutched in Sarah¡¦s right hand. She had excelled at shaping ore summoned deep from the ground. She¡¦d made the dagger herself in their last year at the Magisterium. It had a name: Semiramis. Alastair knew how Sarah had treasured that blade. If I have to die, I want to die holding my own weapon, she¡¦d always told him. But he hadn¡¦t wanted her to die at all.

His fingers grazed her cold cheek.

A cry made him whip around. In this cave full of death and silence, a cry.

A child.

He turned, searching frantically for the source of the thready wail. It seemed to be coming from closer to the cave entrance. He plunged back the way he had come, stumbling over bodies, some frozen stiff as statues ¡X until suddenly, another familiar face stared up at him from the carnage.

Declan. Sarah¡¦s brother, wounded in the last battle. He appeared to have been choked to death by a particularly cruel use of air magic; his face was blue, his eyes shot with broken blood vessels. One of his arms was outflung, and just underneath it, protected from the icy cave floor by a woven blanket, was Alastair¡¦s infant son. As he stared in amazement, the boy opened his mouth and gave another thin, mewling cry.

As if in trance, shaking with relief, Alastair bent and lifted his child. The boy looked up at him with wide gray eyes and opened his mouth to scream again. When the blanket fell aside, Alastair could see why. The baby¡¦s left leg hung at a terrible angle, like a snapped tree branch.

Alastair tried to call up earth magic to heal the boy but had only enough power left to take away some of the pain. Heart racing, he rewrapped his son tightly in the blanket and wound his way back through the cave to where Sarah lay. Holding the baby as if she could see him, he knelt down beside her body.

¡§Sarah,¡¨ he whispered, tears thick in his throat. ¡§I¡¦ll tell him how you died protecting him. I will raise him to remember how brave you were.¡¨

Her eyes stared at him, blank and pale. He held the child more closely to his side and reached to take Semiramis from her hand. When he did, he saw that the ice near the blade was strangely marked, as if she had clawed at it while dying. But the marks were too deliberate for that. As he bent closer, he realized they were words ¡X words his wife had carved into the cave ice with the last of her dying strength.

As he read them, he felt them like three hard blows to the stomach.

KILL THE CHILD

CHAPTER ONE

CALLUM HUNT WAS a legend in his little North Carolina town, but not in a good way. Famous for driving off substitute teachers with sarcastic remarks, he also specialized in annoying principals, hall monitors, and lunch ladies. Guidance counselors, who always started out wanting to help him (the poor boy¡¦s mother had died, after all) wound up hoping he¡¦d never darken the doors of their offices again. There was nothing more embarrassing than not being able to come up with a snappy comeback to an angry twelve-year-old.
¡§Thank you,¡¨ the man whispered before letting him go. ¡§Thank you for killing Constantine.¡¨

I didn¡¦t. Call stumbled on as hands reached out of the crowd. He shook some, avoided others, gave one a high five and then felt stupid.

¡§Is this what it¡¦s like for you all the time?¡¨ he asked Aaron.

¡§Not before last summer,¡¨ Aaron said. ¡§Anyway, I thought you wanted to be a hero.¡¨

I guess it¡¦s better than being a villain, Call thought, but let the words die on his tongue.

Finally they came to where the Assembly was waiting, separated from the rest of the room by floating silver ropes. Anastasia Tarquin, one of the most powerful members of the Assembly, was talking to Tamara¡¦s mother. Tarquin was an extremely tall, older woman with masses of upswept, bright silver hair, and Tamara¡¦s mother had to crane her neck to look at her.

Tamara was standing with Celia and Jasper, all three of them laughing about something. It was the first time Call had seen Tamara since the start of summer. She was wearing a bright yellow dress that made her brown skin glow. Her hair fell in heavy, dark waves around her face and down her back. Celia had done something weird and elegant and complicated with her blond hair. She was in a seafoam-green gauzy thing that seemed to waft around her.

Both the girls turned toward Call and Aaron. Tamara¡¦s face lit up and Celia smiled. Call felt a little bit like someone had kicked him in the chest. Weirdly, it wasn¡¦t an unpleasant feeling.

Tamara ran over to Aaron, giving him a quick hug. Celia hung back as though struck with sudden shyness. It was Jasper who came up to Call, clapping him on the shoulder, which was a relief, as nothing about Jasper made Call feel as if his world was tilting. Jasper just looked like his usual smug self, his dark hair sticking up with hair gel.

¡§So, how¡¦s the ole E-o-D, himself?¡¨ Jasper whispered, making Call flinch. ¡§You¡¦re the star of the show.¡¨

Call hated that Jasper knew the truth about him. Even if he was fairly sure Jasper would never reveal his secret, it didn¡¦t stop Jasper from making comments and needling him every chance he got.

¡§Come,¡¨ Master Rufus said. ¡§Time is wasting. We have a ceremony to attend, whether we want to or not.¡¨

With that, Call, Aaron, Tamara, Jasper, Master Rufus, Master Milagros, and Alastair were herded up onto a raised dais. Celia waved good-bye as they went.

Call knew they were in trouble when he saw there were chairs up on the dais. Chairs meant a long ceremony. He wasn¡¦t wrong. The ceremony went by in a blur, but it was an extended and boring blur. Various Assembly members made speeches about how integral they personally had been to the mission. ¡§They couldn¡¦t have done it without me,¡¨ said a blond Assembly member Call had never seen before. Master Rufus and Master Milagros were praised for having such fine apprentices. The Rajavis were praised for having raised such a brave daughter. Alastair was praised for his diligence in leading their expedition. The kids themselves were credited with being the greatest heroes of their time.

They were applauded and kissed on their cheeks and patted on their backs. Alastair was given a heavy medal that swung on his neck. He began to look a little wild-eyed after they stood up for the sixth round of applause.

No one mentioned severed heads or the whole misunderstanding where they had thought Alastair was in league with the Enemy or how no one at the Magisterium had even known that the kids were going on the mission. Everyone acted like this had been the plan all along.

They were all given their Bronze Year wristbands and stones of glimmering red beryl to show the worth of their accomplishment. Call wondered what the red stone meant exactly ¡X every stone color had a meaning: yellow for healing, orange for bravery, and so on.

Call stepped up to have Master Rufus place the stone in his wristband. The red beryl went in with a click, like a lock being shut. ¡§Callum Hunt, Makar!¡¨ someone in the room shouted. Someone else stood up and cried out Aaron¡¦s name. Call let the shouts wash over him like a bewildering tide. ¡§Call and Aaron! Makaris, Makaris, Makaris!¡¨

Call felt a hand brush his shoulder. It was Anastasia Tarquin. ¡§In Europe,¡¨ she said, ¡§when they discover someone is a chaos mage, they don¡¦t celebrate them. They kill them.¡¨

Call turned to stare at her in shock, but she was already moving away through the crowd of Assembly members. Master Rufus, who clearly hadn¡¦t heard her ¡X no one had but Call ¡X came forward toward Aaron and Call. ¡§Makars,¡¨ he said. ¡§This isn¡¦t just a celebration. We have something to discuss.¡¨

¡§Right here?¡¨ Aaron asked, clearly startled.

Rufus shook his head. ¡§It¡¦s time for you to see something very few apprentices ever see. The War Room. Come with me.¡¨

Tamara looked after Aaron and Call worriedly as they were led away through the crowd. ¡§The War Room?¡¨ Aaron muttered. ¡§What¡¦s that?¡¨

¡§I don¡¦t know,¡¨ Call whispered back. ¡§I thought the war was over.¡¨

Master Rufus led them expertly behind the floating ropes, avoiding the eyes of the crowd, until they reached a door set into the far wall. It was a bronze door, carved with the shapes of tall ships sailing, cannons, and explosions over the sea.

Rufus pushed the door open, and they entered the War Room. Call¡¦s words about why there were no windows echoed in his own head ¡X because there were plenty of windows here. There was a marble floor, but every other surface was glass, and the glass glowed with enchanted light. Beyond the glass Call could see sea creatures swimming by: fish with brightly colored stripes, sharks with coal-black eyes, graceful flapping rays.

¡§Whoa,¡¨ said Aaron, craning his neck. ¡§Look up.¡¨

Call did and saw the water above them, glowing with the light of the surface. A school of silvery fish shot by and then pivoted according to some unseen signal, all of them racing off in the new direction.

¡§Sit,¡¨ Assemblyman Graves ¡X old, grumpy, and mean ¡X said. ¡§We realize this is a celebration, but there are things we must discuss. Master Rufus, you and your two apprentices should sit here.¡¨ He indicated chairs beside him.

Call and Aaron exchanged a reluctant glance before shuffling over to take their seats. The rest of the Assembly members were arranging themselves around the table, making small talk. Above them, visible beyond the glass, an eel ribboned its way through the sea and snapped up a slow-moving fish. Call wondered if it was an ominous sign.

Once the room had quieted down, Graves resumed speaking. ¡§Thanks to the efforts of our honorees this evening, we are having a very different discussion than we could have anticipated having. Constantine Madden is dead.¡¨ He looked around the room as if waiting for that information to sink in. Call couldn¡¦t help feeling that if it hadn¡¦t sunk in yet, it never would, given how many times The Enemy of Death is dead! had been repeated during the honoring ceremony. ¡§And yet¡¨ ¡X Graves slammed his hand down on the table, making Call jump ¡X ¡§we cannot rest! Constantine Madden might be defeated, but his army is still out there. We must strike now and root out the Chaos-ridden and all of Constantine¡¦s allies.¡¨

A murmur went around the room. ¡§No one has been able to detect any sign of the Chaos-ridden since Madden¡¦s death,¡¨ said Master North. ¡§It¡¦s as if they disappeared when he died.¡¨

Several mages looked hopeful at this, but Graves only shook his head grimly. ¡§They are out there somewhere. We must assemble teams to hunt them down and destroy them.¡¨

Call felt a little queasy. The Chaos-ridden were basically mindless zombies, all their humanity pushed out to make room for chaos. But he¡¦d heard them speak. Seen them move, even kneel to him. The idea of a pyre of their burning bodies made his stomach turn.

¡§What about Chaos-ridden animals?¡¨ asked Anastasia Tarquin. ¡§Most of them never served the Enemy of Death; they¡¦re the descendants of the unfortunate creatures that did. Unlike the Chaos-ridden people, they¡¦re alive, not reanimated bodies.¡¨

¡§Still, they¡¦re dangerous. I move that we exterminate them all,¡¨ Graves said.

¡§Not Havoc!¡¨ Call yelled before anyone could stop him.

The members of the Assembly turned in his direction. Anastasia had a small smile on her face, as though she¡¦d enjoyed his outburst. She seemed like someone who didn¡¦t mind when things didn¡¦t go the way everyone else expected. Her gaze slid to Aaron, gauging his reaction.

¡§The pet of the Makaris,¡¨ she said, looking back at Call. ¡§Surely Havoc can be exempted.¡¨

¡§And the Order of Disorder has been studying other Chaos-ridden beasts. Keeping some alive for their research has value,¡¨ added Rufus.

The Order of Disorder was a small group of rebellious mages who lived in the woods just outside the Magisterium, studying chaos magic. Call wasn¡¦t sure what he thought of them. They¡¦d tried to force Aaron to stay and help with their chaos experiments. They hadn¡¦t been nice about it, either.

¡§Yes, yes,¡¨ said Graves dismissively. ¡§Perhaps a small number can be saved, although I have never much cared for the Order of Disorder, as you well know. We need to keep an eye on them, to be sure that none of Constantine¡¦s conspirators are hiding out among them. And we need to find Master Joseph. We cannot forget that he¡¦s still dangerous and will almost certainly attempt to use the Alkahest against us.¡¨

Anastasia Tarquin made a small note on a paper. Several other mages murmured among themselves; quite a few were sitting up straight, trying to make themselves look important. Master Rufus was nodding, but Call suspected he didn¡¦t much like Graves, either.

¡§Lastly, we must make sure that Callum Hunt and Aaron Stewart use their Makar abilities in the service of the Assembly and the larger mage community. Master Rufus, it is going to be integral that you report regularly on their teaching as they move into their Bronze, Silver, and Gold Years, readying themselves to go to the Collegium.¡¨

¡§They are my apprentices.¡¨ Master Rufus raised a single brow. ¡§I need to have independence to teach them as I see fit.¡¨

¡§We can discuss that later,¡¨ said Graves. ¡§They are Makars before they are students of the Magisterium. It would be well for both you and them to remember that.¡¨

Aaron shot Call a worried glance. Master Rufus looked grim.

Graves went on. ¡§Due to the Magisterium¡¦s proximity to the largest number of Chaos-ridden animals, we¡¦re going to expect the school to take point on their destruction.¡¨

¡§You can¡¦t possibly expect the students of the Magisterium to spend their school time murdering animals,¡¨ protested Master Rufus, rising to his feet. ¡§I object strongly to this suggestion. Master North?¡¨

¡§I agree with Rufus,¡¨ said Master North, after a pause.

¡§They¡¦re not animals. They¡¦re monsters,¡¨ Graves argued. ¡§The woods around the Magisterium have been full of them for years, and we haven¡¦t treated the situation with the seriousness that we could, because the Enemy could always have made more. But now ¡X now we have a chance to exterminate them.¡¨

¡§They may be monsters,¡¨ said Rufus, ¡§but they look like animals. And there are those, like Havoc, who give us all pause and reason to wonder if they might be saved rather than destroyed. Surely it is in the interests of the whole mage world for our students to learn mercy. Constantine Madden,¡¨ he added, in a low voice, ¡§never did.¡¨

Graves shot him a look of something very close to hatred. ¡§Fine,¡¨ he said in a clipped voice. ¡§The removal of the Chaos-ridden animals will be dealt with by a team headed up by myself and other members of the Assembly. Please don¡¦t expect me to entertain any complaining about how we¡¦ll be cluttering up the woods where your students practice. This is more important than your school.¡¨

¡§Of course,¡¨ Master Rufus said, still in the same low voice. Call tried to catch his eye, but Rufus was imperturbable.

¡§That leaves us with one last point of business,¡¨ said Graves. ¡§The spy.¡¨

This time the murmur that ran around the table was very loud indeed.

¡§We have reason to believe there is a spy in the Magisterium,¡¨ Graves pronounced. ¡§Someone freed the elemental monster Automotones and sent him to kill the Makar Aaron Stewart.¡¨

Everyone looked at Call and Aaron.

¡§Yep,¡¨ Call said. ¡§That did happen.¡¨

Graves nodded. ¡§We will be placing various spy traps in the school, and Anastasia will be guarding the tunnels where the great elementals are kept. The spy will be caught and dealt with appropriately.¡¨

Spy traps? Aaron mouthed to Call. Call tried not to laugh, because what he was picturing was a big pit in the ground hidden with important papers or something. But since, for once, it seemed like the Assembly and the Magisterium had an actual plan to take care of a real danger, maybe Call could spend his Bronze Year just learning stuff and getting into the regular, fun kind of trouble instead of the world-ruining kind.

AFTER THE ASSEMBLY meeting, Call and Aaron were free to return to the party. Hors d¡¦oeuvres were being passed around, but Call didn¡¦t feel hungry. He was thinking about Havoc¡¦s Chaos-ridden family and all the other Chaos-ridden animals out in the forest. Call didn¡¦t remember being Constantine Madden, but that didn¡¦t mean that he didn¡¦t owe something to the innocent creatures Constantine had changed. There had to be something he could do.

¡§So how was the secret meeting?¡¨ Jasper asked, walking up with Celia and Tamara. All three of them looked bright-eyed and relaxed, like they¡¦d been laughing a lot. Or maybe dancing. Some dancing had started on the other side of the party. Call eyed it with suspicion and alarm.

¡§Weird,¡¨ Aaron said, oblivious to Call¡¦s mood. He grabbed a cheese puff off a passing waiter¡¦s plate and stuffed it into his mouth. Then he made a muffled sound, appearing as though he¡¦d planned to say more before hunger had taken over.

Call filled them in. ¡§It was all about Chaos-ridden people and animals. Getting rid of them, basically.¡¨

¡§Not Havoc!¡¨ Tamara said, dark eyes horrified. Call was pleased with her for having the same reaction he¡¦d had. It was nice to be reminded that Havoc was also important to his two best friends.

Two more waiters came by with plates and snacks. Call took three shrimp toasts from one and a chicken skewer from the other. He should probably try to eat something, he thought, though his stomach felt knotted. Jasper piled an enormous amount of food onto his plate and began shoveling his way through it with the determination of a shark.

¡§Havoc got a pass,¡¨ Call said. ¡§But basically Graves is in cleanup mode. Everything that¡¦s left over from the time of the Enemy of Death, he wants erased.¡¨

Tamara was clearly bubbling over with questions. ¡§Did you ¡X¡¨ she began, but then looked over at Celia and seemed to think better of it. Celia hadn¡¦t been with them when they¡¦d left the school to try to find Alastair. She didn¡¦t know Call¡¦s secret. ¡§Never mind. We should just have fun tonight. Aaron, come on, dance with me.¡¨

Aaron managed to grab another cheese puff before he was seized by Tamara. He handed his empty plate to Jasper and disappeared into the mass of dancing people in a swirl of Tamara¡¦s yellow skirts.

Celia gave Call a hopeful look he pretended not to see. With his leg, he had no hope of doing anything but embarrassing himself on a dance floor. Call smiled at her but said nothing. After the awkward moment had stretched out as long as an awkward moment possibly could, Celia sighed.

¡§I¡¦m going to get a drink,¡¨ she said, and headed off toward an enormous punch bowl.

¡§Smooth,¡¨ said Jasper. ¡§I guess everything they say about Constantine having deadly charisma was maybe not so accurate.¡¨

Out of all of them, Jasper was the only one who Call sometimes caught looking at him with suspicion or worry, as if maybe he didn¡¦t know him at all.

¡§I¡¦m not the Enemy,¡¨ Call said under his breath.

¡§Let¡¦s test that,¡¨ said Jasper, glancing at Call¡¦s plate. ¡§The Enemy of Death would never give me his last chicken skewer.¡¨

Call handed it over without comment. He wasn¡¦t that hungry, anyway.

¡§The Enemy of Death would also never introduce me to that hot girl who just waved at you.¡¨

Call looked over in surprise to see that the hot girl Jasper was talking about was actually a girl he¡¦d met before, a friend of Tamara¡¦s older sister, Kimiya. She had long black hair and elegant cheekbones. She waved when she saw him looking in her direction.

Call gave Jasper his most evil look. ¡§You¡¦re right,¡¨ he said, and walked off to find Alastair. He thought he¡¦d seen him talking to Anastasia Tarquin, her silver hair bobbing above the crowd. Call was pushing through a knot of people by the drinks table when someone tapped him on the shoulder.

It was the girl Jasper had mentioned, Jennifer Matsui. She was a Gold Year, like Kimiya, and up close she was a head taller than Call.

¡§Callum!¡¨ she said brightly. ¡§Congratulations on the award.¡¨

¡§Thanks,¡¨ Call said, craning his neck to see Jasper staring at him from across the room, as if he couldn¡¦t believe what was happening. ¡§It was a very good ¡K award.¡¨

That hadn¡¦t been what he¡¦d meant to say at all.

¡§I have something for you,¡¨ she said, dropping her voice to a low, conspiratorial whisper. ¡§A pretty blond girl gave it to me.¡¨

She held out a folded piece of paper with Call¡¦s name scribbled on it. Puzzled, he took it. Jennifer blew him a kiss and bounced off through the crowd, back toward Kimiya and the small knot of older students who were giggling together. Call saw a familiar face ¡X Alex Strike, one of the few older students he was friends with. Alex and Kimiya had broken up last year, but from the way they were standing and laughing together, either they¡¦d gotten back together or at least they were friends again.

Call unfolded the note.

Call, I need to talk to you alone. Meet me in the trophy room. ¡X Celia.

For a long moment, he just stared at it, heartbeat accelerating. He tried to tell himself that he shouldn¡¦t be worried, that Celia was his friend and that they¡¦d taken lots of walks with Havoc outside the Magisterium. This wasn¡¦t much different from that. But in his experience, when someone ¡§needed to talk to you,¡¨ it was usually about something bad.

Or it could be the other thing, a dating thing. He¡¦d seen the Bronze Year students hold hands and share drinks and giggle a lot in the Gallery. He really hoped she didn¡¦t want to do that. But what if she did? And what if he wasn¡¦t any good at it?

Besides, he didn¡¦t even know where the Trophy Room was.

His palms had started to sweat.

Call gritted his teeth and wiped his hands on his pants. Hadn¡¦t Jasper just been testing his Evil Overlordliness? That was what Call needed to focus on. Evil Overlords, even ones who might not remember Evil Overlording, shouldn¡¦t be scared of meeting up with their friends who just happened to be girls. Call was going to be fine. He had this.

With renewed and slightly desperate optimism, he headed toward the tapestry map. He could see Tamara and Aaron, still dancing out on the floor with the others. He wondered if it had occurred to Tamara to ask him to dance, but he knew she would always choose Aaron first. He¡¦d accepted it a long time ago. He didn¡¦t even really mind.

Anyway, Celia had said to come alone. Which he should definitely do if this was going to be about dating. Which he really hoped it wasn¡¦t.

According to the map, the Trophy Room wasn¡¦t far. He headed away from the crowd, through a set of doors and down a marble corridor with small alcoves set into the walls, holding old manuscripts and artifacts. Call liked the clicking sounds his shoes made on the floor as he went. He stopped to peer at an old wristband that must have been the prototype for the one he wore. The leather had been worn thin and several of the stones were missing from their setting. He didn¡¦t recognize the name of the mage who was on the plaque behind it, but the date of his death was 1609, which seemed like a very long time ago.

A few more steps and Call came to the Trophy Room. Over the door, a sign read AWARDS AND HONORS. The door was propped open, so he slipped noiselessly inside.

It was a dim, solemn room, smaller than the main hall. Like the hall, the space was illuminated by an enormous chandelier, this one with blown-glass arms in the shape of octopus tentacles, each sucker dripping with crystals, as though droplets of water clung to them. The walls were covered with a collection of plaques and medallions that must have been given to students at the Collegium.

Call was entirely alone.

He took a turn around the room, glancing at the pictures of mages on the walls, wishing for a window where he could look at a fish or something to pass the time. He was sure Celia would be along in a minute.

After several minutes passed, he took out the note again and reread it. Maybe he¡¦d misunderstood. Maybe she¡¦d written that she¡¦d meet him in fifteen minutes or an hour. But no, the note didn¡¦t specify any time.

After a few more minutes, he decided she wasn¡¦t coming.

He felt unexpectedly glum. If this was his first date, it was a bust. Celia had probably written the note and then forgotten all about him and found someone else to dance with ¡X someone who actually could dance. Maybe she was dancing with Jasper. Or she was waltzing around with an impressive Gold Year student who could tell her all about his achievements, and she was so mesmerized that she¡¦d stood Call up. Later he¡¦d meet her outside the Magisterium to walk Havoc and she¡¦d wave it off. I was going to meet you, she¡¦d say, but you know how it is when you meet someone who¡¦s actually interesting! Time just flies.

Call looked at his reflection in the glass of a trophy case. His hair was sticking up. Probably Call would be alone forever, and die alone, and Alastair would bury him in a car graveyard.

The door opened; there were footsteps. Call whirled, but it wasn¡¦t Celia standing there. It was Tamara and Aaron.

¡§What are you doing in the Trophy Room?¡¨ Tamara asked, frowning. ¡§Are you okay?¡¨

Aaron looked around, puzzled. ¡§Are you hiding in here?¡¨

Call was entirely sure that nothing like this ¡X being stood up and humiliated ¡X had ever happened to Aaron. He was doubly sure nothing like this had happened to Tamara.

Come to think of it, what were Tamara and Aaron doing here together? What if they¡¦d been going off to do some kind of hand-holding dating thing together? It was bad enough that Call was sure Tamara would always choose Aaron first, but if they were dating, then Aaron would always choose Tamara, too.

¡§Are you okay?¡¨ Aaron asked, frowning in confusion at Call¡¦s silence. ¡§Your dad told us he saw you come this way.¡¨

Relief washed over Call that they hadn¡¦t come here to be alone, but to find him. Now all he had to do was figure out how to explain what he¡¦d been doing. ¡§Well,¡¨ he said, taking a step toward them, ¡§you see ¡X¡¨

He was cut off by a grind and screech, a terrible metallic sound. Call looked up to see the chandelier hurtling toward him, octopus arms and dazzling crystals and all.

¡§Call!¡¨ Tamara screamed. The chandelier tumbled brilliantly down toward Call. Something hit him hard from the side. Pain shot up his leg as he struck the floor and skidded, someone¡¦s fingers digging into the back of his jacket.

It was Tamara. He saw a blur of her dark hair and yellow dress, and then the chandelier hit the floor beside them. It was like a bomb going off. There was a horrible musical shattering. Shards of crystal exploded toward them. Call tried to curl his body around to block Tamara. He heard her scream, and then suddenly everything was very dark and quiet.

For a moment, Call wondered if he was dead. But it didn¡¦t seem likely that the afterlife meant lying on a stone floor next to Tamara, while a black cloud hovered over them. Tamara was gasping, wide-eyed. Call rolled to the side awkwardly and stared.

Aaron was standing over them, his hand outstretched. Dark, nebulous chaos spilled from his palm, forming a wall around Tamara and Call, drawing into itself the flying bits of broken glass and crystal from the shattered chandelier. Call tried to call out to Aaron, but the chaos sucked away his voice.

He could feel a pull inside him ¡X Call was Aaron¡¦s counterweight, and when Aaron used chaos magic, he felt it. The room beyond Aaron seemed to be wavering ¡X and then Aaron dropped his hand and the darkness vanished.

Call staggered to his feet, reaching down to pull Tamara up after him. One of her cheeks had been cut by a piece of flying glass and was bleeding. Tamara was clutching his arm in a death grip, but now that she was standing, he thought she might be holding him up. Aaron was leaning against the wall, wide-eyed and breathing hard from exertion.

¡§What,¡¨ he said in a raspy voice, ¡§just happened?¡¨

Before Call could answer, the doors flew open and the other partygoers flooded into the room.

CALL¡¦S VISION WAS swimming, making everything a little surreal. People streamed into the room, shocked and gaping. Voices, muttering and yelling, washed across his brain.

The chandelier looked like a huge dead animal collapsed in the middle of the room. Most of its arms were smashed off, and broken glass was everywhere in glittering, razor-sharp piles.

¡§What¡¦s going on in here?¡¨ a black-haired man shouted. Call had a vague memory from the ceremony that he was a teacher at the Collegium, and that his name was Master Sukarno. He was a big man, imposing, and his face was red with fury.

¡§That was chaos magic!¡¨ He whirled on Aaron and Call. ¡§Were you playing around with void magic? How foolish can you be? Chaos magic is strictly controlled everywhere, but forbidden in these rooms. We¡¦re underwater and cannot risk the structural integrity of the school being compromised by arrogant children amusing themselves! We could all have drowned.¡¨

The boy was a genius. Borsini wanted a chance at the sword, and he was buying off Neph in front of all of them. Neph would stay with Khali and the catatonic prince and when he emerged, it would be with ¡§a word from the goddess.¡¨ In truth, Neph hadn¡¦t wanted to go after the sword at all. But the only way he was certain the others would make him stay was if he¡¦d tried to go. Borsini¡¦s eyes met Neph¡¦s. His look said, ¡§If I get the sword, you serve me. Understood?¡¨

¡§Blessed be her name,¡¨ Neph said. The others echoed. They didn¡¦t fully understand what had just happened. They would, in time. Neph said, ¡§You should take my horse; it¡¦s faster than yours.¡¨ And he had woven a small cantrip into its mane. When the sun rose¡Xat about the time a rider would get to the south side of the wood¡Xthe cantrip would begin pulsing with magic that would draw the Dark Hunter. Borsini wouldn¡¦t live to see noon.

¡§Thank you, but I¡¦m an awkward hand at new horses. I¡¦ll take my own,¡¨ Borsini said, his voice carefully neutral. His enormous ears wiggled, and he tugged at his enormous nose nervously. He suspected a trap and knew he¡¦d avoided it, but he wanted Neph to think it was luck.

Neph blinked as if disappointed and then shrugged as if to cover and say it didn¡¦t matter.

It didn¡¦t. He¡¦d tied that cantrip into the mane of every horse in the camp.

5

Kylar had never started a war.

Approaching the Lae¡¦knaught camp required none of the stealth he¡¦d used to approach the Ceurans. Invisible, he simply walked past the sentries in their black tabards emblazoned with a golden sun: the pure light of reason beating back the darkness of superstition. Kylar grinned. The Lae¡¦knaught were going to love the Night Angel.

The camp was huge. It held an entire legion, five thousand soldiers, including a thousand of the famed Lae¡¦knaught Lancers. As a purely ideological society, the Lae¡¦knaught claimed they held no land. In practice, they¡¦d occupied eastern Cenaria for eighteen years. Kylar suspected this legion had been sent here as a show of force to deter Khalidor from trying to push further east. Maybe they just happened to be here.

In truth, he didn¡¦t care. The Lae¡¦knaught were bullies. If there had been a shred of integrity in their claim of fighting black magic, they would have come to Cenaria¡¦s defense when Khalidor invaded. Instead, they¡¦d bided their time, burning local ¡§wytches¡¨ and recruiting among the Cenarian refugees. They¡¦d probably been hoping to come to the rescue after Cenaria¡¦s power was obliterated and take even better lands for their pains.

Without provoking anyone, Cenaria had been invaded from the east by the Lae¡¦knaught, from the north by Khalidor, and now from the south by Ceura. It was about time some of those hungry swords met each other.

A smoking black blade slid from Kylar¡¦s left hand. He made it glow, wreathed in blue flames, but kept himself invisible. Two soldiers chatting instead of walking their patrol routes froze at the sight. The first one was a relative innocent. In the other¡¦s eyes, Kylar could see that the man had accused a miller of witchcraft because he wanted the man¡¦s wife.

¡§Murderer,¡¨ Kylar said. He slashed with the ka¡¦kari-sword. The blade didn¡¦t so much cut as devour. There was barely any resistance as the blade passed through noseguard, nose, chin, tabard, gambeson, and stomach. The man looked down, then touched his split face, where blood gushed. He screamed and his entrails spurted out.

The other sentry bolted, shrieking.

Kylar ran, pulling his illusions around him. As if through smoke, there were glimpses of gleaming iridescent black metal skin, the crescents of exaggerated muscles, a face like Judgment, with brows pronounced and frowning, high angular cheekbones, a tiny mouth, and glossy black eyes without pupils that leaked blue flames. He ran past a knot of gaunt Cenarian recruits, wide-eyed at the sight of him, weapons in hand but forgotten. There were no crimes in their eyes. These men had joined because they had no other way to feed themselves.

The next group had participated in a hundred burnings, and worse. ¡§Raper!¡¨ Kylar yelled. He slid the ka¡¦kari-sword through the man¡¦s loins. It would be a bad death. Three more died before anyone attacked him. He danced past a spear and lopped off its head, then kept running for the command tents at the center of the camp.

A trumpet shrilled an alarm, finally. Kylar continued down the lines of tents, sometimes slipping back into invisibility, always reappearing before he killed. He cut loose some of the horses to create confusion, but not many. He wanted this army to be able to react quickly.

In minutes, the entire camp was in pandemonium. A team of horses dragging their hitching post bolted, the post whipping back and forth, tangling in tents and dragging them away. Men screamed, shouting obscenities, gibbering about a ghost, a demon, a phantasm. Some attacked each other in the darkness and confusion. A tent went up in flames. Whenever an officer emerged, shouting, trying to bring order, Kylar killed. Finally, he found what he was looking for.

An older man burst out of the largest tent in the camp. He threw a great helm on his head, the symbol of a Lae¡¦knaught underlord, a general. ¡§Form up! Hedgehog!¡¨ he shouted. ¡§You fools, you¡¦re being beguiled! Hedgehog formation, damn you!¡¨

Between their terror and his voice being muted by the great helm, few men listened at first, but a trumpeter blew the signal again and again. Kylar saw men starting to form loose circles of ten with their backs to each other, spears out.

¡§You¡¦re only fighting yourselves. It¡¦s a delusion. Remember your armor!¡¨ The underlord meant the armor of unbelief. The Lae¡¦knaught thought superstitions only had power if you believed in them.

Kylar leapt high into the air, and let himself become visible as he dropped in front of the underlord. He landed on one knee, his left hand to the ground, holding the sword, his head bowed. Though the cacophony continued in the distance, the men nearby were stunned to silence. ¡§Underlord,¡¨ the Night Angel said. ¡§For you I bear a message.¡¨ He stood.

¡§It is nothing but an apparition,¡¨ the underlord announced. ¡§Gather! Eagle three!¡¨ The trumpeter blew the orders and soldiers began jogging to take up positions.

Over a hundred men crowded the clearing in front of the underlord¡¦s tent, forming a huge circle around him, spears pointing in. The Night Angel roared, blue flames leaping from his mouth and eyes. Flames trickled back down the sword. He whipped the sword in circles so fast it blurred into long ribbons of light. Then he slapped it back into its sheath with a pulse of light, leaving the soldiers blinking away after-images.

¡§You Lae¡¦knaught fools,¡¨ the Night Angel said. ¡§This land is Khalidoran now. Flee or be slaughtered. Flee or face judgment.¡¨ By claiming to be Khalidoran, Kylar hoped to draw any backlash onto the Ceurans-disguised-as-Khalidorans who were trying to kill Logan and all his men.

The underlord blinked. Then he shouted, ¡§Delusions have no power over us! Remember your armor, men!¡¨

Kylar let the flames dim, as if the Night Angel were unable to sustain itself without the Lae¡¦knaught¡¦s belief. He faded until the only thing visible was his sword, moving in slow forms: Morning Shadows to Haden¡¦s Glory, Dripping Water to Kevan¡¦s Blunder.

¡§It cannot touch us,¡¨ the underlord announced to the hundreds of soldiers now crowding the edges of the clearing. ¡§The Light is ours! We do not fear the darkness.¡¨

¡§I judge you!¡¨ the Night Angel said. ¡§I find you wanting!¡¨ He faded completely and saw relief in every eye around the circle, some men and women openly grinning and shaking their heads, amazed but victorious.

The underlord¡¦s aide-de-camp led his horse to him and handed him the reins and his lance. He mounted, looking like he knew he needed to start giving orders, reasserting control, getting the men to act so they wouldn¡¦t think, so they wouldn¡¦t panic. Kylar waited until he opened his mouth, then bellowed so loudly he drowned out the man¡¦s voice.

¡§Murderer!¡¨ Crescents of biceps and knotted shoulder muscles and glowing eyes were all that appeared, followed by a whoosh of flame as the spinning sword came alight. A soldier toppled to the ground. By the time his head rolled free of his body, the Night Angel was gone.

No one moved. It wasn¡¦t possible. An apparition was the product of mass hysteria. It had no body.

¡§Slaver!¡¨ This time, the sword appeared only as it jutted out of the soldier¡¦s back. The man was lifted on the sword and flung headlong into the side of the iron cauldron. He jerked, his flesh sizzling on the coals, but he didn¡¦t roll away.

¡§Torturer!¡¨ The legion¡¦s gentler¡¦s stomach opened.

¡§Unclean! Unclean!¡¨ The Night Angel screamed, its whole figure glowing, burning blue. It killed left and right.

¡§Kill it!¡¨ the underlord screamed.

Wreathed in blue flames that whipped and crackled in long streams behind him, Kylar was already flipping clear of the circle. Staying visible and burning, he ran straight north, as if heading back to the ¡§Khalidoran¡¨ camp. Men dove out of his path. Then Kylar extinguished the flames, went invisible, and came back to see if his trap had worked.

¡§Form up!¡¨ the underlord shouted, his face purple with rage. ¡§We march to the forest! It¡¦s time to kill some wytches, men! Let¡¦s go! Now!¡¨

6

Eunuchs to the left,¡¨ Rugger the Khalidoran guard, said. He was so muscular he looked like a sack full of nuts, but the most noticeable lump was the wen bulging grotesquely from his forehead. ¡§Hey, Halfman! That means you!¡¨

Dorian shuffled into the line on the left, tearing his eyes away from the guard. He knew the man: a bastard who¡¦d been whelped on some slave girl by one of Dorian¡¦s older brothers. The aethelings, the throne-worthy sons, had tormented Rugger unrelentingly. Dorian¡¦s tutor, Neph Dada, encouraged it. There was just one rule: they couldn¡¦t do harm to any slave that would keep him from performing his duties. Rugger¡¦s wen had been little Dorian¡¦s work.

¡§You staring at something?¡¨ Rugger demanded, poking Dorian with his spear.

Dorian looked resolutely at the floor and shook his head. He¡¦d altered his appearance as much as he dared before coming to the Citadel to ask for work, but he couldn¡¦t take any illusion too far. He would be beaten regularly. A guard or noble or aetheling would notice if a blow didn¡¦t hit the proper resistance or if Dorian didn¡¦t flinch appropriately. He¡¦d experimented with altering the balance of his humors so that he might stop growing a man¡¦s hair, too, but the results had been horrifying. He touched his chest¡Xnow mercifully back to male proportions¡Xjust thinking about it.

Instead, he¡¦d practiced until he could sweep his body with fire and air so as to be hairless. With the speed his beard came in, it would be a weave he would have to use twice a day. A slave¡¦s life included little privacy, so speed was essential. Mercifully, slaves were beneath notice¡Xas long as they didn¡¦t draw attention to themselves by staring at guards as if they were freaks.

Slouch or die, Dorian. Rugger smacked him again, but Dorian didn¡¦t move, so Rugger moved down the line to harass others.

They were standing outside the Bridge Keep. Two hundred men and women were at the keep¡¦s west gate. Winter was coming, and even those who¡¦d had good harvests had been beggared by the Godking¡¦s armies. For the smallfolk, it hardly mattered if the army passing through was enemy or friend. One looted, the other scavenged, but each took what it wanted and killed anyone who resisted. With the Godking emptying the Citadel to send armies both south into Cenaria and north into the Freeze, the coming winter would be brutal. All the people in the line were hoping to sell themselves into slavery before winter arrived and the lines quadrupled.

It was an icy clear autumn morning in the city of Khaliras, two hours before dawn. Dorian had forgotten the glory of the northern stars. In the city, few lamps burned¡Xoil was too precious, so few terrestrial fires tried to compete with the ethereal flames burning like holes in the cloak of heaven.

Despite himself, Dorian couldn¡¦t help but feel a stirring of pride as he looked over the city that could have been his. Khaliras was laid out in an enormous ring around the chasm that surrounded Mount Thrall. Succeeding generations of Ursuul Godkings had walled in semicircles of the city to protect their slaves and artisans and merchants until all the semicircles of different stone had connected to shield the whole of the city.

There was only one hill, a narrow granite ridge up which the main road snaked in switchbacks designed to encumber siege weapons. At the top of the ridge the Gate Keep sat like a toad on a stump. And just on the other side of the rusty iron portcullis¡¦s teeth lay Dorian¡¦s first great challenge.

¡§You four, go,¡¨ Rugger said.

Dorian was third of four eunuchs, and all shivered as they approached the precipice. Luxbridge was one of the wonders of the world, and in all his travels, Dorian had never seen magic to rival it. Without arches, without pillars, the bridge hung like a spider¡¦s anchor line for four hundred paces between the Gate Keep and the Citadel of Mount Thrall.

The last time he¡¦d crossed Luxbridge, Dorian had only noticed the brilliance of the magic, sparkling, springy underfoot, coruscating in a thousand colors at every step. Now, he saw nothing but the building blocks to which the magic was anchored. Luxbridge¡¦s mundane materials were not stone, metal, or wood; it was paved with human skulls in a path wide enough for three horses to pass abreast. New heads had been added to whatever holes had formed over the years. Any Vurdmeister, as masters of the vir were called after they passed the tenth shu¡¦ra, could dispel the entire bridge with a word. Dorian even knew the spell, for all the good it did him. What made his stomach knot was that the magic of Luxbridge had been crafted so that magi, who used the Talent rather than the foul vir that meisters and Vurdmeisters used, would automatically be dropped.

As perhaps the only person in Midcyru who had been trained as both meister and magus, Dorian thought he had a better chance of making the crossing than any other magus. He¡¦d bought new shoes last night and fitted a lead plate inside each sole. He thought he¡¦d eliminated all traces of southern magic that might cling to him. Unfortunately, there was only one way to find out.

Heart thudding, Dorian followed the eunuchs onto Luxbridge. At his first step, the bridge flared weirdly green and Dorian felt his feet tingling as vir reached up around his shoes. An instant later it stopped, and no one had seen it. Dorian had done it. Luxbridge felt that he was Talented, but Dorian¡¦s ancestors had been smart enough to know that not every Talented person was a mage. The rest of Dorian¡¦s steps, shuffling like the other nervous eunuchs¡¦, brought sparks out of the magic that made the embedded skulls seem to yawn and shift as they stared hatefully at those who passed overhead. But they didn¡¦t give way.

If Dorian felt some pride at the genius of Luxbridge, the sight of Mount Thrall brought only dread. He¡¦d been born in the bowels of that damned rock, been starved in its dungeons, fought in its pits, and committed murder in its bedchambers and kitchens and halls.

Within that mountain, Dorian would find his vurd, his destiny, his doom, his completion. He would also find the woman who would become his wife. And, he feared, he would find out why he had cast aside his gift of prophecy. What was so terrible that he wanted to throw away his foreknowledge of it?

Mount Thrall was unnatural: an enormous four-sided black pyramid twice as tall as it was wide and extending deep below the earth. From Luxbridge, Dorian looked down and saw clouds obscuring whatever depths lay below. Thirty generations of slaves, both Khalidoran and captured in war, had been sent into those depths, mining until they gasped out their last breaths in the putrid fumes and added their own bones to the ore.

The pyramid of the mountain had been sheared straight down one edge and flattened, leaving a plateau in front of a great triangular dagger of mountain. The Citadel sat on that plateau. It was dwarfed by the mountain, but as one approached, it became clear that the Citadel was a city unto itself. It held barracks for ten thousand soldiers, great storerooms, vast cisterns, training places for men and horses and wolves, armories, a dozen smithies, kitchens, stables, barns, stockyards, lumberyards, and space for all the workers, tools, and raw materials needed for twenty thousand people to survive a year under siege. And even at that, the Citadel was dwarfed in comparison to the castle that was Mount Thrall, for the mountain was honeycombed with halls and great rooms and apartments and dungeons and passages long forgotten that bored into its very roots.

Neither the Citadel nor the mountain had been full in decades and with the armies sent north and south, the place was even quieter than usual. Khaliras was now home to only the smallfolk, a skeleton crew of an army, less than half of the kingdom¡¦s meisters, enough functionaries to keep the reduced business of the kingdom operating, the aethelings, and the Godking¡¦s wives and concubines and their keepers.

Head among those keepers was the Chief Eunuch, Yorbas Zurgah. Yorbas was an old, soft, perfectly hairless man, even shaving his head and plucking his eyebrows and eyelashes. He sat huddled in an ermine cloak to ward off the morning chill at the servants¡¦ gate. Before him was a desk with a parchment unrolled on it. His blue eyes studied Dorian dubiously.

¡§You¡¦re short,¡¨ Chamberlain Zurgah said. He himself had a typical eunuch¡¦s height.

And you¡¦re fat. ¡§Yes, my lord.¡¨

¡§¡¥Sir¡¦ will suffice.¡¨

¡§Yes, sir.¡¨

Chamberlain Zurgah stroked his hairless chin with fingers like sausages encased in jeweled rings. ¡§You have an odd look about you.¡¨

In his youth, Dorian had rarely seen Yorbas Zurgah. He didn¡¦t think the man would remember him, but anything that caused greater scrutiny was dangerous.

¡§Do you know the penalty for a man who attempts entry to the harem?¡¨ Zurgah asked.

Dorian shook his head and looked steadfastly at the ground. He clenched his jaw and, without raising his eyes, tucked his hair back behind his ears.

It was what he considered a stroke of genius; he¡¦d given himself silver streaks in his hair, paired with slightly pointed ears and several webbed toes. They were features that only one tribe in Khalidor possessed. The Feyuri claimed to be descended from the Fey folk and were equally despised for that and their pacifism. Dorian appeared to be half Feyuri, which was exotic enough and from a group despised enough that he hoped no one would stop to think how his Khalidoran half made him look a lot like Garoth Ursuul. It also explained why he was short. ¡§It¡¦s the . . .  other reason they call me Halfman, sir.¡¨

Yorbas Zurgah clicked his tongue. ¡§I see. Then here are the terms of your indenture: you will serve whatever hours are asked of you. Your first tasks will include emptying and cleaning the concubines¡¦ chamber pots. Your food will be cold and never as much as you¡¦d like. You are forbidden to speak with the concubines and if you have trouble with this, your tongue will be torn out. You understand?¡¨

Dorian nodded.

¡§Then only one thing remains, Halfman.¡¨

¡§Sir?¡¨

¡§We have to make sure you¡¦re a halfman after all. Remove your trousers.¡¨

7

Lantano Garuwashi sat in Kylar¡¦s path, his sword naked across his lap. Mountainous Feir Cousat stood beside him, meat-slab arms folded. They blocked a narrow game trail that led along the southern edge of the Hunter¡¦s Wood. Feir muttered a warning as Kylar approached.

Garuwashi¡¦s sword was unmistakable. The hilt was long enough for one or two hands; pure mistarille inscribed with gold runes in Old Ceuran. The slightly curving blade was inscribed with a dragon¡¦s head, facing the tip of the blade. As Kylar came closer, the dragon breathed fire. The flames traveled within the blade, and before them, Ceur¡¦caelestos turned clear as glass. The flames rolled out farther as Kylar approached. Kylar brought the ka¡¦kari to his eyes and saw Ceur¡¦caelestos in the hues of magic.

That was when he knew the sword was the product of another age. The magics themselves had been crafted to be beautiful¡Xand Kylar couldn¡¦t understand the least of them. He sensed playfulness, grandeur, hauteur, and love. Kylar realized he had a tendency for getting into things that were way over his head. Not least of which was trying to steal such a sword from Lantano Garuwashi.

¡§Drop the shadows, Kylar, or I¡¦ll help you drop them,¡¨ Feir said.

Fifteen paces away from them, Kylar dropped the shadows. ¡§So, mages can see me when I¡¦m invisible. Dammit.¡¨ He¡¦d suspected as much.

Feir smiled joylessly. ¡§Only one in ten men. Nine in ten women. I can only see you within thirty paces. Dorian could¡¦ve seen you half a mile away, through trees. But I forget myself. Baronet Kylar Stern of Cenaria, also known as the Night Angel, war son of wetboy Durzo Blint, this is War Leader Lantano Garuwashi the Undefeated, the Chosen of Ceur¡¦caelestos, of the Aenu Heights Lantanos.¡¨

Kylar clasped his left hand to his stump and bowed in the Ceuran style. ¡§War Leader, the many tales of your deeds attest to your prowess.¡¨

Garuwashi rose and slid Ceur¡¦caelestos into its sheath. He bowed and his mouth twitched. ¡§Night Angel, likewise the few tales of yours.¡¨

The horizon was brightening, but it was still dark in the forest. It smelled like rain and coming winter. Kylar wondered if they would be the last smells he would experience. He smiled on the rising tide of despair. ¡§We seem to have a problem,¡¨ Kylar said. Several, actually.

¡§What¡¦s that?¡¨ Garuwashi asked.

I can¡¦t fight you invisible without killing Feir first, and even if I did, neither of you merits death. ¡§You have a sword I need,¡¨ Kylar said instead.

¡§Are you out of your¡X¡¨ Feir asked, but cut off at Garuwashi¡¦s raised hand.

¡§Forgive me, Night Angel,¡¨ Garuwashi said, ¡§but you¡¦re not left-handed, and you move like the loss of your sword hand was recent. If you so desire death that you would challenge me, I will not deny you. But why would you?¡¨

Because I made a deal with the Wolf. Mere hours afterward, Kylar had found Durzo¡¦s note that ended, ¡§MAKE NO DEALS WITH THE WOLF.¡¨ Maybe this was why. I can¡¦t win.

Not unless I give you a hand,~ the ka¡¦kari said in Kylar¡¦s mind. The black metal ball that lived within Kylar spoke rarely, and it wasn¡¦t always helpful when it did. You¡¦re hilarious, Kylar thought back at it.

Garuwashi¡¦s eyes flicked down to Kylar¡¦s wrist. Feir was agog.

Kylar glanced down and saw jet black metal writhing from his stump. It resolved itself slowly into a hand. He tried to make a fist, and it did. Are you joking?

~I¡¦m not that cruel. By the way, Jorsin Alkestes didn¡¦t like the idea of his enemies coming back to life. If that sword kills you, you¡¦re really dead.~

Funny, the Wolf failed to mention that. Kylar wiggled the black fingers. He even had some sensation in them. At the same time, the hand was too light. It was hollow, the skin thinner than parchment. Hey, while you¡¦re doing miracles . . . 

~No.~

You didn¡¦t even listen!

~Go ahead.~ It felt like the ka¡¦kari was rolling its eyes. How did it do that? It didn¡¦t even have eyes.

Can you fix its weight?

~No.~

Why not?

The ka¡¦kari sighed. ~I stay one size. I¡¦m already covering all your skin and making a hand for you. Invisibility, blue flames, and an extra hand not enough for you?~

So making a dagger of you and throwing it would be a bad idea?

The ka¡¦kari went silent in a huff, and Kylar grinned. Then he realized he was grinning at Lantano Garuwashi, who had sixty-three deaths tied to his hair, and eighty-two in his eyes.

¡§You need a minute?¡¨ Garuwashi asked, lifting an eyebrow.

¡§Uh, I¡¦m ready now,¡¨ Kylar said. He drew his sword.

¡§Kylar,¡¨ Feir said. ¡§What are you going to do with the sword?¡¨

¡§I¡¦m going to put it somewhere safe.¡¨

Feir¡¦s eyes widened. ¡§You¡¦re taking it into the Wood?¡¨

¡§I was thinking I¡¦d throw it in.¡¨

¡§Good idea,¡¨ Feir said.

¡§Perhaps a nice idea. But not a good one,¡¨ Garuwashi said. He closed the distance between them in an instant. The swords rang together in the staccato melody that would climax in death. Kylar decided to feign a tendency to overextend on his ripostes. With a swordsman as talented as Lantano Garuwashi, he should only have to show the weakness twice and spring the trap the third time.

Except that the first time he overextended, Garuwashi¡¦s sword was into the gap, raking Kylar¡¦s ribs. He could have killed Kylar with that thrust, but he held back, wary of a trap.

Kylar staggered back, and Garuwashi let him regroup, his eyes showing disappointment. They¡¦d barely crossed swords for five seconds. The man was too fast. Ridiculously fast. Kylar brought the ka¡¦kari to his eyes and was even more stunned.

¡§You¡¦re not even Talented,¡¨ Kylar said.

¡§Lantano Garuwashi needs no magic.¡¨

~Kylar Stern surely does!~

Kylar felt an old familiar shiver, an echo from his past. It was the fear of dying. With Alitaeran broadswords, Kylar could have crushed Garuwashi with the brute strength of his Talent. Against the elegant Ceuran sword, Kylar¡¦s Talent did almost nothing for him. ¡§Let¡¦s get on with it,¡¨ Kylar said.

They began again, Garuwashi feeling Kylar out, even giving ground, seeing what Kylar could do. But there was no holding back. Kylar had seen that. Soon Kylar would tire and try something desperate. Garuwashi would be waiting for it¡Xhow many desperate men had he seen in sixty-three duels? Surely every man who had survived the first clash of blades had the same sick feeling in his stomach that Kylar had now. There was no room for self-delusion once the blades began singing.

Something changed on Garuwashi¡¦s face. It wasn¡¦t enough to tell Kylar what he was going to do; but it was enough to tell him that Garuwashi thought he knew Kylar¡¦s strengths. Now he would end it.

There was a beat. Kylar waited for Garuwashi to advance, those damn long arms of his unbelievably quick, the stance fluid and sure.

¡§You feel it, don¡¦t you?¡¨ Garuwashi asked, withholding his attack. ¡§The rhythm.¡¨

¡§Sometimes,¡¨ Kylar grunted, his eyes not leaving Garuwashi¡¦s center, where he would see any movement begin. ¡§Once, I heard it as music in truth.¡¨

¡§Many died that day?¡¨ Garuwashi asked.

Kylar shrugged.

¡§Thirty highlanders, four wytches, and a Khalidoran prince,¡¨ Feir said.

Lantano Garuwashi smiled, not surprised at Feir¡¦s knowledge. ¡§Yet today you fight woodenly. You are stiff, slower than usual. Do you know why? That day you faced death no less than you do today.¡¨

Wrong, but I didn¡¦t know that then.

¡§Today,¡¨ Garuwashi continued, ¡§you are afraid. It narrows your vision, tenses your muscles, makes you slow. It will make you dead. Fight to win, Kylar Stern, not to not lose.¡¨ It was disconcerting to hear good advice from the man who was about to kill him.

¡§Here,¡¨ Garuwashi said. He lifted Ceur¡¦caelestos and Kylar saw the edges go blunt. ¡§I¡¦ll know when you¡¦re ready.¡¨

Feir leaned up against a tree and whistled quietly.

Garuwashi attacked again and within seconds, the dull sword scraped Kylar¡¦s ribs. A few more seconds passed in furious ringing and the dull blade grazed his forearm, then jabbed his shoulder. But even as the blows rained down on him, Kylar began to remember his master Durzo¡¦s merciless sparring. His fear receded. This was the same, except now Kylar had more endurance, more strength, more speed, and more experience than a year ago. And he¡¦d beaten Durzo. Once. Kylar¡¦s vision cleared and his pulse slowed from its frenzied hammering.

¡§That¡¦s it!¡¨ Garuwashi said. Ceur¡¦caelestos went sharp once more and they began.

Kylar was aware of Feir. The second-echelon Blade Master was seated cross-legged on the ground now, jaw slack. The man was muttering to himself, ¡§Gabel¡¦s Game to Many Waters to Three Mountain Castles¡Xgood, good¡Xto Heron¡¦s Hunt to¡Xwas that Praavel¡¦s Defense? Goramond¡¦s Dive to¡Xwhat the hell? I¡¦ve never¡XYrmi¡¦s Bout, good gods, some variation on Two Tigers? Harani Bulls to . . .¡¨

The fight accelerated, but Kylar felt a calm. He was, he realized, smiling. Madness! Yet it was so, and Garuwashi¡¦s thin lips were drawn up in a little smirk of their own. There was beauty here, something precious and rare. Every man wished he could fight. Few could, and only one in a hundred years fought this well. Kylar had never thought to see another master on a par with Durzo Blint, but Lantano Garuwashi might even be better than Durzo, a little faster, his reach a little longer.

Kylar dove behind a sapling a second before Garuwashi sheared it in two. As Garuwashi pushed aside the falling tree, Kylar thought. He only had one thing Lantano Garuwashi didn¡¦t. Well, aside from invisibility.

Oh, don¡¦t use that! It wouldn¡¦t be fair!~

What Lantano Garuwashi didn¡¦t have was years of fighting against someone better than he was. Kylar was studying Garuwashi¡¦s style in a way Garuwashi had never needed study anyone¡¦s. It was straightforward. Garuwashi basically depended on his superior speed, strength, reach, technique, and flexibility to win. And¡Xthere!

Kylar went through half of Lord Umber¡¦s Glut and then modified it, twisting the last parry so Ceur¡¦caelestos missed his cheek by a breath. His own sword gashed Garuwashi¡¦s shoulder¡Xbut Garuwashi¡¦s counter was already coming. Kylar threw up an arm and instinctively brought the ka¡¦kari up along the ridge.

The large estates loomed ahead, differentiated from the others not so much by the size of the buildings as by the amount of land within the walls. Where the manses were packed side by side, the estates sprawled. Guards presided over gates of ironwood rather than intricate grillwork¡Xgates built long ago for defense, not decoration.

The gate of the first estate bore the Jadwin trout inlaid with gold leaf. Through the sally port, he saw a lavish garden filled with statues, some marble, some covered with beaten gold. No wonder they have a dozen guards. All the guards were professional and a few furlongs short of handsome, which gave credence to the rumors about the duchess, and he was more than happy to pass the Jadwin estate. He was a handsome man with olive skin, black eyes, and hair still black as a night untouched by the gray shadows of dawn. Sharing a house with a voracious duchess whose husband left on frequent and lengthy embassies was trouble he didn¡¦t need.

Not that I¡¦ll find less where I¡¦m going. Dorian, my friend, I hope this was genius. He didn¡¦t want to consider the other possibility.

¡§I am Solon Tofusin. I¡¦m here to see Lord Gyre,¡¨ Solon said as he arrived in front of the Gyre estate¡¦s gate.

¡§The duke?¡¨ the guard asked. He pushed his helm back and scraped a hand across his forehead.

The man¡¦s a simpleton. ¡§Yes, Duke Gyre.¡¨ He spoke slowly and with more emphasis than was necessary, but he was tired.

¡§That¡¦s a crying shame,¡¨ the guard said.

Solon waited, but the man didn¡¦t elaborate. Not a simpleton, an ass. ¡§Is Lord Gyre gone?¡¨

¡§Nawp.¡¨

So that¡¦s what this is about. The red hair should have tipped me off. Solon said, ¡§I know that after millennia of being raided, the smarter Ceurans moved inland, leaving your ancestors on the coast, and I realize that when Sethi pirates raided your village they carried off all the presentable women¡Xagain leaving your ancestors¡Xso through no fault of your own, you¡¦re both stupid and ugly. But might you attempt to explain how Lord Gyre is both gone and not gone? You can use small words.¡¨

Perversely, the man looked pleased. ¡§No marks on your skin, no rings through your face, you don¡¦t even talk like a fish. And you¡¦re fat for a fish, too. Let me guess, they offered you to the sea but the sea gods wouldn¡¦t take you and when you washed up on the beach you were nursed by a troll who mistook you for one of her own.¡¨

¡§She was blind,¡¨ Solon said, and when the man laughed, he decided he liked him.

¡§Duke Gyre left this morning. He won¡¦t be back,¡¨ the guard said.

¡§He won¡¦t be back? You mean ever?¡¨

¡§Not my place to talk about it. But no, not ever, unless I miss my guess. He¡¦s gone to command the garrison at Screaming Winds.¡¨

¡§But you said Lord Gyre isn¡¦t gone,¡¨ Solon said.

¡§The duke named his son the Gyre until he returns.¡¨

¡§Which will be never.¡¨

¡§You¡¦re quick for a fish. His son Logan is the Gyre.¡¨

Not good. For the life of him, Solon couldn¡¦t remember if Dorian had said Duke Gyre or Lord Gyre. Solon hadn¡¦t even considered that there might be two heads of House Gyre. If the prophecy was about Duke Gyre, he needed to get riding, now. But if it were about his son, Solon would be leaving his charge at the time he needed him most.

¡§May I speak with Lord Gyre?¡¨

¡§Can you use that steel?¡¨ the guard asked. ¡§If you can¡¦t, I¡¦d suggest you hide it.¡¨

¡§Excuse me?¡¨

¡§Don¡¦t say I didn¡¦t warn you. Come with me.¡¨ The guard called to another atop the wall, who came to hold the gate while the Ceuran led Solon into the estate. A stable boy took the nag, and Solon kept his sword.

He couldn¡¦t help but be impressed. The Gyre estate had a permanence about it, the deliberate gravitas of an old family. Acanthus was planted inside the walls and out, growing from red soil Solon knew must have been brought in especially for the purpose. The thistly plants hadn¡¦t just been chosen to keep beggars or thieves from the walls, they also had long associations with Alitaeran nobility. The manse itself was similarly daunting, all heavy stone and broad arches and thick doors that could withstand a siege engine. The only compromise strength had made with beauty were the climbing blood roses that framed each door and every ground floor window. Against the backdrop of black stone and iron-barred windows, their perfect red hue was striking.

Solon didn¡¦t pay attention to the ringing of steel until the guard walked past the entry to the manse and around to the back of the building. Here, with a view across the Plith to Castle Cenaria, several guards were watching as two men bundled in practice armor pummeled each other. The smaller man was retreating, going back in circles as the larger man¡¦s blows thudded on his shield. The smaller man stumbled, and his opponent bull-rushed, leveling him with a shield like a ram. The man raised his sword, but the next blow sent it flying and the next rang his helmet like a bell.

Logan Gyre tore off his helmet and laughed, helping the guard to his feet. Solon¡¦s heart sank. This was Lord Gyre? He was a child in a giant¡¦s body, baby fat still on his face. He couldn¡¦t have been more than fourteen, probably younger. Solon could imagine Dorian laughing. Dorian knew he didn¡¦t like children.

The Ceuran guard stepped forward and spoke quietly to Lord Gyre.

¡§Hello,¡¨ the boy lord said, turning to Solon. ¡§Marcus tells me you fancy yourself quite a swordsman. Are you?¡¨

Solon looked at the Ceuran, who gave him a self- satisfied smile. His name is Marcus? Even the names in this country were a mess. With little regard for people¡¦s origins, Alitaeran names like Marcus or Lucienne mixed freely with Lodricari names like Rodo or Daydra, Ceuran names like Hideo or Shizumi, and normal Cenarian names like Aleine or Felene. About the only names most people wouldn¡¦t name their children were the slaves names common in the Warrens, like Scar or Harelip. ¡§I can hold my own, Lord Gyre. But it is words I wish to exchange with you, not blows.¡¨ If I go now, my old mare and I can make it to the garrison in six, maybe seven days.

¡§We will speak then¡Xafter we spar. Marcus, get him some practice armor.¡¨ The men looked pleased, and Solon saw that they loved this young lord like he was their own son. And laughed too easily and spoiled him. He was suddenly the Gyre, and the men were still entranced by the novelty of the idea.

¡§I don¡¦t need it,¡¨ Solon said.

The chuckling stopped and the men looked at him.

¡§You want to spar without armor?¡¨ Logan asked.

¡§I don¡¦t want to spar at all, but if it is your will, I shall consent¡Xbut I won¡¦t fight with a practice blade.¡¨ The men hooted at the prospect of seeing this short Sethi fight their giant, unarmored. Only Marcus and one or two others looked troubled. With the thick armor Logan wore, there was little danger that he would be seriously injured, even with a sharp sword. But the danger was there. In his eyes, Solon saw that Logan knew it too. He was suddenly doubting if he should have been quite so brash with someone who he knew nothing about, someone who might well wish him harm. Logan was looking again at Solon¡¦s stocky build.

¡§Milord,¡¨ Marcus said, ¡§maybe it would be best if¡X¡¨

¡§Agreed,¡¨ Logan said to Solon. He pulled his helmet on and locked the visor. He unlimbered his sword and said, ¡§Ready when you are.¡¨

Before Logan could react, Solon jabbed his fingers through the boy¡¦s visor and grabbed the nosepiece. He yanked Logan forward and twisted. The boy slammed into the ground with a grunt. Solon drew a knife from Logan¡¦s belt and held it to the boy¡¦s eye, his knee resting on the side of Logan¡¦s helmet, holding it in place.

¡§Do you yield?¡¨ Solon asked.

The boy¡¦s breaths were labored. ¡§I yield.¡¨

Solon released him and stood, brushing the dust from the leg of his breeches. He didn¡¦t offer to help Lord Gyre stand.

The men were quiet. Several had drawn swords, but none moved forward. It was obvious that if Solon had meant to kill Logan, he would have already done it. No doubt they were thinking about what Duke Gyre would have done to them if such a thing had happened.

¡§You¡¦re a fool boy, Lord Gyre,¡¨ Solon said. ¡§A buffoon performing for men you may one day have to ask to die for you.¡¨ He said Duke Gyre, surely Dorian said Duke Gyre. But he sent me here. Surely he would have sent me to the garrison directly if he meant the duke. The prophecy wasn¡¦t about me. Dorian couldn¡¦t have known that I would be held up, that I would get to the city this late. Could he?

Logan removed his helmet, and he was red-faced, but he didn¡¦t let his embarrassment flare into anger. He said, ¡§I, I deserved that. And I deserved the manhandling you just gave me. Or worse. I¡¦m sorry. It is a poor host who assaults his guests.¡¨

¡§You know they¡¦ve been losing on purpose, don¡¦t you?¡¨

Logan looked stricken. He glanced at the man he¡¦d been fighting as Solon arrived, then stared at his own feet. Then, as if it took an effort of will, he raised his eyes to Solon¡¦s. ¡§I see that you speak true. Though it shames me to learn it, I thank you.¡¨ And now his men looked ashamed. They¡¦d been letting him win because they loved him, and now they had shamed their lord. The men weren¡¦t just pained, they were in misery.

How does this boy command such loyalty? Is it just loyalty to his father? As he watched Logan look at each of the men in turn¡Xstaring until each met his gaze and then looked away¡XSolon doubted that. Logan let the pained silence sit and grow.

¡§In six months¡¦ time,¡¨ Logan said, addressing the men, ¡§I will serve at my father¡¦s garrison. I will not sit safely in the castle. I will fight, and so will many of you. But since you seem to think sparring is entertainment, very well. You will entertain yourselves by sparring until midnight. All of you. Tomorrow, we will start training. And I expect all of you to be here an hour before dawn. Understood?¡¨

¡§Yes, sir!¡¨

Logan turned to Solon. ¡§Sorry about that, Master Tofusin. About all of it. Please call me Logan. You¡¦ll stay for dinner, of course, but can I also have the servants prepare a room for you?¡¨

¡§Yes,¡¨ Solon said. ¡§I think I¡¦d like that.¡¨

8

Every time Vurdmeister Neph Dada met with Rat, it was in a different place. Rooms in inns, cellars of boat shops, bakeries, east side parks, and dead-end alleys in the Warrens. Ever since Neph had figured out that Rat was afraid of the dark, he¡¦d made sure they always met at night.

Tonight, Neph watched Rat and his bodyguards enter the tiny old overfull graveyard. It wasn¡¦t as dark as Neph would have hoped; taverns and game halls and whorehouses huddled not thirty paces away. Rat didn¡¦t dismiss his bodyguards immediately. Like most parts of the Warrens, the graveyard was less than a foot above the waterline. The Rabbits, as the natives of the Warrens were called, buried their dead directly in the mud. If they had the money, they erected sarcophagi above ground, but ignorant immigrants had buried their dead in coffins after some riot or another years ago, and the ground had swollen above those graves as the coffins fought to float to the surface. Several had broken open, their contents devoured by feral dogs.

Rat and his bodyguards looked sick with fright. ¡§Go on,¡¨ Rat finally said to his bigs, nonchalantly picking up a skull and tossing it at one of them. The boy stepped back quickly and the skull, weak with age or disease, shattered on a stone.

¡§Hello, child,¡¨ Neph rasped into Rat¡¦s ear. Rat flinched and Neph smiled his gap-toothed smile, his long, sparse white hair falling in a greasy trickle to his shoulders. Neph stood so close the boy took a step back.

¡§What do you want? Why am I here?¡¨ Rat asked.

¡§Ah, petulance and philosophy all bound up in one.¡¨ Neph shuffled closer. He¡¦d grown up in Lodricar, east of Khalidor. The Lodricari thought men who distanced themselves so much that you couldn¡¦t even smell their breath were hiding something. Merchants in Cenaria who dealt with the Lodricari complained bitterly about it, but stood close eagerly enough when Lodricari coins were at stake. But Neph didn¡¦t stand close for cultural reasons. He hadn¡¦t lived in Lodricar for half a century. He stood close because he liked to see Rat¡¦s discomfort.

¡§Ha!¡¨ Neph said, exhaling a gust of rotten air over Rat¡¦s face.

¡§What?¡¨ Rat said, trying not to edge back.

¡§I haven¡¦t given up on you yet, you great stupid boy. Sometimes you manage to learn despite yourself. But that¡¦s not what I¡¦m here for. Not what you¡¦re here for, either. It¡¦s time to move. Your enemies are arrayed against you but not yet organized.¡¨

¡§How do you know that?¡¨

¡§I know more than you think, Ratty Fatty.¡¨ Neph laughed again, and spittle flew onto Rat¡¦s face. Rat almost struck him then, Neph could tell. Rat had become a guild Fist for a reason. But of course he¡¦d never hit Neph. The old man knew he looked frail, but a Vurdmeister had other defenses.

¡§Do you know how many boys your father has whelped?¡¨ Neph asked.

Rat looked around the graveyard as if Neph hadn¡¦t already checked for anyone eavesdropping. The boy was hopelessly stupid. Stupid, but capable of cunning, and utterly ruthless. Besides, Neph didn¡¦t have many choices. When he¡¦d come to Cenaria, he¡¦d been placed in charge of four boys. The most promising one had eaten some bad meat in the first year and died before Neph had even known he was sick. This week, the second had been killed in territory fight between guilds. That left Neph with only two. ¡§His Holiness has fathered one hundred and thirty-two boys the last time I counted. Most of those lacked Talent and were culled. You are one of forty-three who are his seed. I¡¦ve told you this before. What I haven¡¦t told you is that each of you is given a task, a test to prove your usefulness to your father. If you pass, you may one day become Godking yourself. Can you guess what your task is?¡¨

Rat¡¦s beady eyes glittered with visions of opulent splendor.

Neph slapped him. ¡§Your task, boy.¡¨

Rat rubbed his cheek, trembling with rage. ¡§Become Shinga,¡¨ he said quietly.

Well, the boy aimed higher than Neph would have guessed. Good. ¡§His Holiness has declared that Cenaria will fall, as will all the southlands. The Sa¡¦kage is the only real power in Cenaria, so, yes, you will become Shinga. Then you will give your father Cenaria and everything in it¡Xor, more likely, you will fail and die and one of your brothers will do this.¡¨

¡§There are others in the city?¡¨ Rat asked.

¡§Your father is a god, but his tools are men, and thus fail. His Holiness plans accordingly. Now my little failure-in-waiting, what is your brilliant plan to deal with Azoth?¡¨

Rage roared high in Rat¡¦s eyes once more, but he controlled it. One word from Neph, and Rat would be one more corpse floating in the Plith by morning, and they both knew it. In truth, Neph was testing him. Cruelty was Rat¡¦s greatest asset¡XNeph had seen Rat¡¦s bloodthirstiness cow older boys who might have killed him¡Xbut it was worthless if he couldn¡¦t control it.

Rat said, ¡§I¡¦ll kill Azoth. I¡¦ll make him bleed like¡X¡¨

¡§What you can¡¦t do is kill him. If you do, he will be forgotten; another will take his place. He must live broken, where all the world can see him.¡¨

¡§I¡¦ll beat him in front of everyone. I¡¦ll break his hands and¡X¡¨

¡§What happens if his lizards rush to defend him?¡¨

¡§They, they wouldn¡¦t. They¡¦re too afraid.¡¨

¡§Unlike other boys I know,¡¨ Neph said, ¡§Azoth isn¡¦t stupid. He knew what it meant when those bigs came to him. He may have even been planning for this all along. The first thing he¡¦ll expect is that you¡¦ll get scared and try to beat him. So he¡¦ll have a plan for it.¡¨

Neph watched the realization settle on Rat that he might actually lose control of the guild. If he lost the guild, he¡¦d lose his life.

¡§But you have a plan,¡¨ Rat said. ¡§A way I can destroy him, don¡¦t you?¡¨

¡§And I might even share it,¡¨ Neph said.

It was coming. Azoth could feel it as he lay on the floor, surrounded by his lizards, his guild. His. Fifteen littles and five bigs. Half the littles in Black Dragon and a quarter of the bigs were his now. They slept peacefully around him, probably even Badger, who was supposed to only be feigning sleep.

Azoth hadn¡¦t slept for four days. The night he¡¦d come home from talking to Blint and every night since, he¡¦d lain awake, plotting, doubting, feverish with excitement about a life without Rat. And the rising light of day had melted his plans with the fog. He¡¦d called those who stood with him his lizards as a joke¡Xthey certainly weren¡¦t dragons¡Xbut the children had taken the name proudly, deaf to the despair in the label.

During the days, he¡¦d acted, given orders, formed his pathetic lizards into a force, done anything to keep his mind off killing Rat. How long would Rat wait? The time for a purge was now. Everyone was waiting to see what Rat would do. Everyone was still sure that he would do something. If he didn¡¦t, though, and soon, his faithful would start to doubt him, and he¡¦d lose the guild in an instant.

Azoth had even given orders for three of the littles he trusted most to guard Doll Girl at all times. Then he¡¦d doubted himself. It wasn¡¦t a good use of the strength he had. He needed those littles bringing him information: listening to the others in the guild, searching the other guilds to see if any of the neighboring guilds would like the lizards to join them. Besides, what could three littles do against all of Rat¡¦s bigs? Children who were eight, ten, and eleven respectively weren¡¦t going to stop Rat¡¦s fifteen- and sixteen-year-olds. He¡¦d ended up assigning two of the bigs who had joined him first to watch over her, and had kept her close during every waking hour.

He was slipping, though. The nights without sleep were catching up with him. His mind was a muddle. It was only a matter of time until he made a stupid mistake. And all of it was because he didn¡¦t have the guts to kill Rat.

He could do it tonight. It would be easy, really. Rat had gone out before midnight with two bigs, but when they got back, he¡¦d fall asleep instantly. The bastard never had trouble sleeping. Azoth had the shiv. He even had a real knife that one of the bigs had stolen. All he had to do was walk up to Rat and stick it in him. Anywhere in the stomach would work. Even if Rat¡¦s dragons were loyal enough to take him to a healer, they¡¦d certainly take all of his money. What healer was going to work for free on a guild rat? All Azoth had to do was wait until five minutes after Rat got back, then get up to piss. On his way back in, he¡¦d kill him.

It was the only way Doll Girl would ever be safe.

He knew what becoming a wetboy would mean. Everything would change. Wetboys were knives in the dark. Azoth would learn how to fight, how to kill. He wouldn¡¦t just learn how, he¡¦d do it. Blint would expect him to kill. That niggled at him like a stare from Doll Girl that wouldn¡¦t really count unless he met her eyes. But he didn¡¦t think much about the specifics of murdering. He held onto that image of Durzo Blint, laughing at the entire guild. Durzo Blint, laughing at Rat and his little army. Durzo Blint, fearless. Durzo Blint, who Azoth could be.

Blint would take him away. Azoth wouldn¡¦t lead Black Dragon. He wouldn¡¦t even lead his lizards. But he didn¡¦t want to. He didn¡¦t want the littles looking at him like he was their father, the bigs who towered over him looking at him like he knew what he was doing, like he would keep them all safe. He couldn¡¦t even keep himself safe. This was all a fraud. He was a fraud. He¡¦d been set up, and they didn¡¦t even see it.

The unmistakable sound of the front door being moved aside heralded Rat¡¦s return. Azoth was so scared he would have wept if he hadn¡¦t told Badger to stay awake. He couldn¡¦t weep in front of his bigs. He was sure Rat would come over to him, have the bigs lift him up, and take him away to some horrific punishment that would make Jarl¡¦s look easy. But true to form, Rat pushed into his harem, lay down, and was asleep in seconds.

A wetboy wouldn¡¦t cry. Azoth tried to slow his breathing, tried to listen to see if Rat¡¦s bodyguards were asleep, too.

Wetboys weren¡¦t afraid. They were killers. Other people were afraid of them. Everyone in the Sa¡¦kage was afraid of them.

If I lie here and try to sleep again, I might sleep here with nothing happening for another night or another week, but Rat will get me. He¡¦ll destroy everything. Azoth had seen the look in his eyes. He believed Rat would destroy him, and he didn¡¦t believe that it would be a week before he did. It¡¦s either that or I kill him first. In his mind, Azoth saw himself as a hero, like something out of a bard¡¦s tale: giving Jarl his money back, giving Ja¡¦laliel enough to buy review, everyone in the guild loving him for killing Rat, and Doll Girl speaking for the first time, approval glowing in her eyes, telling how brave he was.

It was stupid, and he couldn¡¦t afford stupidity.

He had to piss. Azoth got up angrily and walked out the back door. Rat¡¦s bodyguards didn¡¦t even shift in their sleep as he walked past them.

The night air was cold and rank. Azoth had been spending most of the collection money to feed his lizards. Today, he¡¦d bought fish. The ever-hungry littles had gotten into the entrails and eaten them and gotten sick. His urine arcing into the alley, he thought that he should have had someone watching out for that. It was just something else he¡¦d missed.

He heard a scuffing sound from inside and turned, lacing his breeches up. Looking into the darkness, though, he saw nothing. He was losing it, jumping at sounds when there were three score guild rats pressed together in the house, sleeping, moaning on empty bellies, and rolling into their neighbors.

Suddenly, he smiled and touched the shiv. There might be a hundred things he didn¡¦t know and a thousand more he couldn¡¦t control, but he knew what he needed to do now.

Rat had to die; it was that simple. What happened to Azoth after he did it didn¡¦t even matter. Whether they thanked him or killed him, he had to kill Rat. He had to kill him before Rat got to Doll Girl. He had to kill him now.

And with that, the decision was made. Azoth held the shiv up along his wrist and stepped inside. Rat would be sleeping wedged in with his harem. It would only be two steps out of Azoth¡¦s way. Azoth would pretend to stumble in case the bigs were watching, and then plunge the shiv into Rat¡¦s stomach. He would stab him over and over until Rat was dead or he was.

Azoth was within four steps of his attack when he came in sight of his own sleeping space.

Badger was lying on his back in the darkness, a thin line drawn across his neck, black on white skin. His eyes were open, but he wasn¡¦t moving.

Doll Girl¡¦s space was empty. She was gone, and so was Rat.

9

He lay in the darkness, too stunned to weep. Even in his sudden blind shock, Azoth knew that Rat¡¦s bigs couldn¡¦t be asleep. This was what they had been waiting for. Azoth had left for the barest minute, and they had taken Doll Girl. It wouldn¡¦t even do him any good to wake the whole guild. In the darkness and confusion, he¡¦d never know just which of Rat¡¦s bigs was gone. And what would he do even if he knew? Even if he knew who was gone, he wouldn¡¦t know where they¡¦d gone. Even if he knew where they¡¦d gone, what would he do?

He lay in the darkness, stumbling over thoughts, staring at the sagging ceiling. He¡¦d heard them. Damn him forever. He¡¦d heard the sound and didn¡¦t even go look.

He lay in the darkness, finished. The watch changed. The sun rose. The guild rats stirred, and he stared at the sagging ceiling, waiting for it to collapse on him like everything else. He couldn¡¦t have moved if he wanted to.

He lay in the light. Children were shrieking, littles pulling at him, shouting something. Something about Badger. Questions. It was all words. Words were wind. Someone shook him, but he was far away.

It wasn¡¦t until long after that that he woke. There was only one sound that could have brought him out of his trance: Rat, laughing.

Tingles shot across his skin and he sat upright. He still had the shiv. There was dried blood on the floor, but Azoth barely saw it. He stood and started walking toward the door.

That terrible laugh rang out again, and Azoth ran.

The moment he stepped through the door, out of the corner of his eye he saw the shadow of the doorframe elongate and snap forward. It was as fast as a trapdoor spider he¡¦d once seen, and just as effective. He slammed into the shadow like he¡¦d run into a wall. His head rang as he was pulled back into the deep shadows between the guild building and the ruin next to it.

¡§So eager for death, little one?¡¨

Azoth couldn¡¦t shake his head, couldn¡¦t shake loose. The shadow had a hand like iron over his face. Slowly, he realized it was Master Blint.

¡§Five days, kid. Five days you had to kill him.¡¨ He was whispering in Azoth¡¦s ear, the faintest hint of garlic and onions laced through his breath. In front of them, Rat was talking with the guild, laughing and making them laugh with him. Some of Azoth¡¦s lizards were there, laughing too, hoping to escape Rat¡¦s notice.

So it begins already. Whatever Azoth had accomplished was already coming apart. The rest of the lizards were gone. Doubtless they¡¦d come crawling back later to see what had happened. Azoth couldn¡¦t even be mad at them for it. In the Warrens, you did what you had to to survive. It wasn¡¦t their failure; it was his. Blint was right: the bigs on either side of Rat were ready. Rat himself was ready. If Azoth had charged out there, he would have died. Or worse. All the time he¡¦d had to plan, and he¡¦d done nothing. He would have deserved that death.

¡§Calm now, kid?¡¨ Blint asked. ¡§Good. Because I¡¦m going to show you what your hesitation cost.¡¨

Solon was ushered in to dinner by an old man with a stooped back and a smartly pressed uniform adorned with gold braid and the Gyre¡¦s soaring white falcon on a field sable, which over the centuries had become barely recognizable as the gyrfalcon it was. A northern falcon. And not Khalidoran or even Lodricari, gyrfalcons were only found in the Freeze. So the Gyres are hardly more native to Cenaria than I am.

Dinner was set in the great hall, a strange choice to Solon¡¦s mind. It wasn¡¦t that the great hall wasn¡¦t impressive¡X it was too much so. It must have been almost as large as Castle Cenaria¡¦s own great hall, adorned with tapestries, banners, shields of long-dead enemies, enormous canvasses, statuary in marble and gold leaf, and a ceiling mural depicting a scene from the Alkestia. In the midst of such grandeur, the table was dwarfed to insignificance, though it was fifteen paces long.

¡§Lord Solon Tofusin, of House Tofusin, Windseekers of Royal House Bra¡¦aden of the Island Empire of Seth,¡¨ the old man announced. Solon was pleased that the man had either known or dug up the appropriate titles, even if Seth was scarcely an empire these days. Solon walked forward to greet Lady Gyre.

She was an attractive woman, stately, with the dark green eyes and the dusky skin and delicate bones of House Graesin. Though she had an admirable figure, she dressed modestly by Cenarian standards: the neckline high, the hemline coming down almost to her slim ankles, the gray gown fitted but not tight.

¡§Blessings, my Lady,¡¨ Solon said, giving the traditional Sethi open-palmed bow, ¡§may the sun smile upon you and all storms find you in port.¡¨ It was a little much, but so was having three people dine in a hall large enough to have its own weather.

She hmmphed, not even bothering to speak to him. They sat and servants brought out the first course, a mandarin duck soup with fennel. ¡§My son warned me of what you were, but you speak quite well, nor have you seen fit to put metal through your face. And you¡¦re wearing clothes. I¡¦m quite pleased.¡¨ Evidently the good duchess had heard about her son¡¦s luck with sparring Solon and didn¡¦t appreciate having her son humbled.

¡§Is it true, then?¡¨ Logan asked. He was at one end of the table, his mother at the other, and Solon unfortunately in the middle. ¡§Do the Sethi really go naked on their ships?¡¨

¡§Logan,¡¨ Catrinna Gyre said sharply.

¡§No. If I may, Lady Gyre, that¡¦s a common misperception. Our island splits the hottest current in the Great Sea, so it¡¦s quite warm there even in the winter. In the summer, it¡¦s nearly intolerable. So though we don¡¦t wear as much clothing or as heavy clothing as people do here, we aren¡¦t without our own standards of modesty.¡¨

¡§Modesty? You call women who run about on boats half-naked modest?¡¨ Lady Gyre asked. Logan looked enrapt by the idea.

¡§Not all of them are modest, of course. But to us, breasts are about as erotic as necks. It might be pleasant to kiss them, but there¡¦s no reason to¡X¡¨

¡§You go too far!¡¨ Lady Gyre said.

¡§On the other hand, a woman who shows her ankles is obviously hoping not to go below decks alone. Indeed, Lady Gyre,¡¨ he lifted an eyebrow and pretended to look at her ankles, though they were too far away and on the other side of table legs. ¡§Sethi women would think you quite brazen.¡¨

Catrinna Gyre¡¦s face went ashen.

Before she could say anything, though, Logan laughed. ¡§Ankles? Ankles? That¡¦s so . . . dumb!¡¨ He wolf-whistled. ¡§Nice ankles, mother.¡¨ He laughed again.

A servant arrived with the second course, but Solon didn¡¦t even see him set it down. Why do I do this? It wouldn¡¦t be the first time his sharp tongue had cut his own throat.

¡§I see that your lack of respect isn¡¦t confined to striking Lord Gyre,¡¨ the duchess said.

Now he¡¦s Lord Gyre. So, the men weren¡¦t stupid; they weren¡¦t babying Logan; she¡¦d probably ordered them not to hit Logan in practice.

¡§Mother, he was never disrespectful to me. And he didn¡¦t mean to disrespect you, either.¡¨ Logan looked from his mother to Solon, and found stony gazes on each. ¡§Did you, Lord Tofusin?¡¨

¡§Milady,¡¨ Solon said, ¡§my father once told me that there are no lords on the practice field because there are no lords on the battlefield.¡¨

¡§Nonsense,¡¨ she said. ¡§A true lord is always a lord. In Cenaria we understand this.¡¨

¡§Mother, he means that enemy swords cut nobles as surely as they cut peasants.¡¨

Lady Gyre ignored her son and said, ¡§What is it that you want from us, Master Tofusin?¡¨

It was a rude thing to ask a guest, and not least for addressing him as a commoner. Solon had been counting on the Gyres¡¦ courtesy to give him long enough to figure out that very thing. He had thought that he could watch and wait, dine with the Gyres at every meal, and be afforded a fortnight or two before he announced any intention of his plans. He thought he might like the boy, but this woman, gods! He might be better off with the Jadwin seductress.

¡§Mother, don¡¦t you think you¡¦re being a little¡X¡¨

She didn¡¦t even look at her son; she just raised her palm toward him and stared at Solon, unblinking.

So that¡¦s how it is.

Logan wasn¡¦t just her son. For all that he was only a boy, Logan was Catrinna Gyre¡¦s lord. In that contemptuous gesture, Solon read the family¡¦s history. She raised her hand, and her son was still young enough, still inexperienced enough, that he went silent like a good son rather than punished her like a good lord. In that contempt and the contempt she¡¦d greeted him with, Solon saw why Duke Gyre had named his son Lord Gyre in his own absence. The duke couldn¡¦t trust his own wife to rule.

¡§I¡¦m waiting,¡¨ Lady Gyre said. The chill in her voice made his decision.

Solon didn¡¦t like children, but he loathed tyrants. Damn you, Dorian. ¡§I¡¦ve come to be Lord Gyre¡¦s adviser,¡¨ he said, smiling warmly.

¡§Ha! Absolutely not.¡¨

¡§Mother,¡¨ Logan said, a touch of steel entering his voice.

¡§No. Never,¡¨ she said. ¡§In fact, Master Tofusin, I¡¦d like you to leave.¡¨

¡§Mother.¡¨

¡§Immediately,¡¨ she said.

Solon didn¡¦t move, merely held his knife and two-pronged fork¡Xhe was glad he remembered how the Cenarians used the things¡Xover his plate, willing himself not to move.

¡§When are you going to let Lord Gyre act like Lord Gyre?¡¨ he asked her.

¡§When he¡¦s ready. When he¡¦s older. And I will not be questioned by some Sethi savage who¡X¡¨

¡§Is that what the duke commanded you when he named his son lord in his absence? Let Logan be lord once he¡¦s ready? My father once told me that delayed obedience is really disobedience.¡¨

¡§Guards!¡¨ she called.

¡§Dammit, mother! Stop it!¡¨ Logan stood so abruptly his chair clattered to the ground behind him.

The guards were halfway to Solon¡¦s chair. They suddenly looked caught, conspicuous. They looked at each other and slowed, vainly tried to approach quietly, their chain mail jingling with every step.

¡§Logan, we¡¦ll speak about this later,¡¨ Catrinna Gyre said. ¡§Tallan, Bran, escort this man out. Now.¡¨

¡§I am the Gyre! Don¡¦t touch him,¡¨ Logan shouted.

The guards stopped. Catrinna¡¦s eyes flashed fury. ¡§How dare you question my authority. You second-guess your mother in front of a stranger? You¡¦re an embarrassment, Logan Gyre. You shame your family. Your father made a terrible mistake in trusting you.¡¨

Solon felt sick, and Logan looked worse. He was shaken, suddenly wavering, about to fold. The snake. She destroys what she should protect. She shatters her own son¡¦s confidence.

Logan looked at Tallan and Bran. The men looked wretched to be so visibly witnessing Logan¡¦s humiliation. Logan shrank, seemed to deflate.

I have to do something.

¡§My Lord Gyre,¡¨ Solon said, standing and drawing all eyes. ¡§I¡¦m terribly sorry. I don¡¦t wish to impose on your hospitality. The last thing I would wish to be is an occasion for strife in your family, and indeed, I forgot myself and spoke too frankly to your mother. I am not always attuned to . . . tempering the truth for Cenarian sensibilities. Lady Gyre, I apologize for any offense you or your lord may have taken. Lord Gyre, I apologize if you felt I treated you lightly and will of course take my leave, if you will grant it.¡¨ A little twist on the if you will grant it.

Logan stood straighter. ¡§I will not.¡¨

¡§My lord?¡¨ Solon painted puzzlement on his face.

¡§I¡¦ve found too much tempering and not enough truth in this house, Lord Tofusin,¡¨ Logan said. ¡§You¡¦ve done nothing to offend me. I¡¦d like you to stay. And I¡¦m sure my mother will do all she can to make you feel welcome.¡¨

¡§Logan Gyre, you will not¡X¡¨ Catrinna Gyre said.

¡§Men!¡¨ Logan said to the guards loudly to cut her off. ¡§Lady Gyre is tired and overwrought. Escort her to her chambers. I¡¦d appreciate it if one of you would watch her door this night in case she requires anything. We will all dine in the usual room in the morning.¡¨

Solon loved it. Logan had just confined his mother to her chambers and put a guard on the door to keep her there until morning, all without giving her an avenue for complaint. This boy will be formidable.

Will be? He already is. And I¡¦ve just chained myself to him. It wasn¡¦t a comfortable thought. He hadn¡¦t even decided to stay. Actually, half an hour ago, he¡¦d decided not to decide for a few weeks. Now he was Logan¡¦s.

Did you know this would happen, Dorian? Dorian didn¡¦t believe in coincidences. But Solon had never had his friend¡¦s faith. Now, faith or no faith, he was committed. It made his neck feel tight, like wearing a slave collar two sizes too small.

The rest of an excellent meal passed in silence. Solon begged his lord¡¦s leave and went looking for the nearest inn that served Sethi wine.

10

Her face was destroyed. Azoth had once seen a man kicked square in the face by a horse. He¡¦d died wheezing on broken teeth and blood. Doll Girl¡¦s face was worse.

Azoth looked away, but Durzo grabbed a handful of his hair and turned him back. ¡§Look, damn you, look. This is what you¡¦ve done, boy. This is what hesitation costs. When I say kill, you kill. Not tomorrow, not five days later. You kill that second. No hesitation. No doubts. No second thoughts. Obedience. Do you understand the word? I know better than you do. You know nothing. You are nothing. This is what you are. You are weakness. You are filth. You are the blood bubbling out of that little girl¡¦s nose.¡¨

Sobs burst from Azoth¡¦s throat. He thrashed and tried to turn away, but Durzo¡¦s grip was steel. ¡§No! Look! This is what you¡¦ve done. This is your fault! Your failure! Your deader did this. A deader shouldn¡¦t do anything. A deader is dead. Not five days from now¡Xa deader is dead as soon as you take the contract. Do you understand?¡¨